Grade so in this lecture What do you want to have a look at it is do follow links versus no follow links
.
We want to understand what they are and what's the difference between them on which one is the one that
actually gives power to our SEO efforts and which is going to get us to the top of the search results
so we're going to start with a little bit of TV then we're going to move into some real examples.
I think this is great to do it now.
Before before we start talking about specific think attraction or link building strategies.
And also if you have any doubt whatsoever about what actually is and think when we go into the real
examples I think that's really going to care.
OK so just to recap a little bit.
We know that search engines see a link as a sort of vote a conference by either that were in authority
on a particular topic.
So we have a lot of sites from around the internet pointing to our page or this particular topic the
search engines pick up on that and say Wow we must be great if everybody's linking to us.
And as a result they put it in front of their user who's searching for it in Google.
So by default all links are to follow.
This means that the vote is passed through the link.
The authority is really passed through the link.
However Google developed what's called no follow the link attribution reading with the purpose of tackling
spam.
So no follow links do not pass a vote through that link.
And here's an example of what that actually looks like.
This is the hate mail code.
So as you can see this is the actual link here in the dot com.
And you can see relationship no follow so no vote will be passed through.
No authority will be passed through and through this link.
If I say publish that on my page on this would be the context this is what I would see on my page.
OK so you know a lot of sites by default are no follow because they want to reduce bombs to sites like
Wikipedia and many blog comment boxes.
Most of the social networks by default they have no follow links.
And again that's really to prevent spam spamming.
Imagine if all the social networks had to follow links.
By default everyone would be everybody would just be going to Twitter going to Facebook going to read
it and just posting loads and loads of links back to their site.
But of course there's no sense in that so they made up this rule the no follow on that really takes
away all of that activity.
Great.
So to bring it to life really let's look at a couple of real examples.
Here's a blog that you may be familiar with.
It's a guy called Tim Ferriss it's the four hour workweek.
He wrote a very famous book Brazee you can see he's got a new article published today.
And in the article we can see about do follow and no follow links so for example we can see a photo
credit here on linked off to serendipity.
So watch you can actually do is go to View.
This is on chrome what you can do on their browsers as well as an option for a senior developer.
You can go use source and so you watch you can see in here is the actual page DML code of this particular
page so if we search for let's see serendipity.
OK.
So this is the photo credit that we saw here and while we really want to see here is if this is if do
follow link or no follow link.
So while we can see is here's the actual link.
This is the anchor text and we can see on the page when we can see that God is just a normal link.
There is no and no follow put in there.
So that's that's going to pass through the vote to her flicker page.
A bit of authority from a high authority site here and very popular blogs so good.
Well done to serendipity there.
Now let's have a look at some of the comments then.
So let's have a look if these are no follow links or do follow link.
So let's just type in Jeff.
Yes
sir.
Jeffrey S. Here we go.
So Jeffrey asss made a comment and really this is what this is is a link back to his Gravatar profile
.
And so as we can see here it's external No follows So as you can see if you were to make a lot of blog
comments there on this site you wouldn't be getting votes back to your site.
Even though there is actually a link there.
Great.
So he should be looking at the source code how we can find out if the link is to follow or no follow
.
But really is a quicker way to do this.
We don't have to do it manually every time.
What we can do is if you type into Google no follow Chrome extension and you can get basically an extension
that's going to show you very quickly whether we link on the page is follow or no follow up.
So you can out of there.
I've already added it in when it went out today and you'll see in it a link symbol here.
And so to enable it and disable it you can just click it.
So this is a much faster way you can see now on Wikipedia for example that these links off the page
are all no follow if they're red.
There are no follow on if they just stay normal and they are followed.
So as you can see all of those you know follow Twitter as well as you can see the links that people
tweet as are all know follow as well.
Facebook as well as the links here are no follow what Samangan grade.
So summing up really do follow links are the ones which are the most harware for us SEO.
And so you can use this chromis extension that I showed you when you're link prospecting to have a look
at the sites that you think could be potentially good sites and see if they alone do follow links.
And just to have a bit of analysis to determine what is their current policies and that would help to
determine then which might be the best sites for you to target in terms of building links from